DOCS-8441 LLM Observability Documentation Navigation Update (#24337)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/llm_observability/terms/_index.md

Task spans typically do not have child spans, as they are standalone steps in the workflow or agent.

#### Embedding span

Embedding spans are a subcategory of tool spans and represent a standalone call to an embedding model or function to create an embedding. For example, an embedding span could be used to trace a call to OpenAI's embedding endpoint.

Embedding spans can have task spans as children, but typically do not have children.

#### Retrieval span

Retrieval spans are a subcategory of tool spans and represent a vector search operation involving a list of documents being returned from an external knowledge base. For example, a retrieval span could be used to trace a similarity search to a vector store to collect relevant documents for augmenting a user prompt for a given topic.

When used alongside embedding spans, retrieval spans can provide visibility into retrieval augmented generation (RAG) operations.

Retrieval spans typically do not have child spans, as they represent a standalone retrieval step.

## Traces

> A trace represents the work involved in processing a request in your LLM application, and consists of one or more nested spans. A *root span* is the first span in a trace, and marks the beginning and end of the trace.
> 
> Datadog's LLM Observability product is designed to support observability for LLM applications with varying complexity. Based on the structure and complexity of your traces, you can unlock the following features of LLM Observability:

Author: ```suggestion
LLM Observability supports observability for LLM applications with varying complexity. Based on the structure and complexity of your traces, you can access the following features of LLM Observability:
```

### LLM Inference Monitoring

LLM inference traces are composed of a single LLM span.

{{< img src="llm_observability/llm-observability-llm-span.png" alt="A single LLM span" style="width:100%;" >}}

Tracing individual LLM inferences unlocks basic LLM Observability features, allowing you to:

> 1. Track inputs and outputs to your LLM calls
> 2. Track token usage, error rates, and latencies for your LLM calls
> 3. Break down important metrics by model and model provider

Author: ```suggestion
1. Track inputs and outputs to your LLM calls.
2. Track token usage, error rates, and latencies for your LLM calls.
3. Break down important metrics by model and model provider.
```

When used alongside embedding spans, retrieval spans can provide visibility into retrieval augmented generation (RAG) operations.

Retrieval spans typically do not have child spans, as they represent a standalone retrieval step.

## Traces

LLM Observability supports observability for LLM applications with varying complexity. Based on the structure and complexity of your traces, you can use the following features of LLM Observability:

### LLM Inference Monitoring

LLM inference traces are composed of a single LLM span.

{{< img src="llm_observability/llm-observability-llm-span.png" alt="A single LLM span" style="width:100%;" >}}

Tracing individual LLM inferences unlocks basic LLM Observability features, allowing you to:

1. Track inputs and outputs to your LLM calls.
2. Track token usage, error rates, and latencies for your LLM calls.
3. Break down important metrics by model and model provider.

> The SDK provides integrations to automatically capture LLM calls to specific providers. See [Auto-instrumentation][3] for more information. If you are using an LLM provider that is not supported, you must [manually instrument your application][4].

Author: ```suggestion

For a detailed example, see the [LLM Monitoring Jupyter notebook][7] which demonstrates how to create and trace an LLM call.

The SDK provides integrations to automatically capture LLM calls to specific providers. See [Auto-instrumentation][3] for more information. If you are using an LLM provider that is not supported, you must [manually instrument your application][4].
```

### LLM Workflow Monitoring

A workflow trace is composed of a root workflow span with nested LLM, task, tool, embedding, and retrieval spans.

{{< img src="llm_observability/llm-observability-workflow-trace.png" alt="A trace visualizing a more complex LLM workflow" style="width:100%;" >}}

Most LLM applications include operations that surround LLM calls and play a large role in your overall application performance - for example, tool calls to external APIs or preprocessing task steps.

> By tracing LLM calls and contextual task or tool operations together under workflow spans, you can unlock more granular insights and a more holistic view of your LLM application.

Author: ```suggestion
By tracing LLM calls and contextual task or tool operations together under workflow spans, you can unlock more granular insights and a more holistic view of your LLM application.

For a detailed example, see the [LLM Monitoring Jupyter notebook][8] which demonstrates how to create and trace an LLM-powered agent that calls tools and makes decisions based on the data.
```

### LLM Agent Monitoring

An agent monitoring trace is composed of a root agent span with nested LLM, task, tool, embedding, retrieval, and workflow spans.

{{< img src="llm_observability/llm-observability-agent-trace.png" alt="A trace visualizing an LLM agent" style="width:100%;" >}}

If your LLM application has complex autonomous logic, such as decision-making that can't be captured by a static workflow, you are likely using an LLM Agent. Agents may execute multiple different workflows depending on the user input.

> You can instrument your LLM application to trace and group together all workflows and contextual operations run by a single LLM agent as an agent trace.

Author: ```suggestion
You can instrument your LLM application to trace and group together all workflows and contextual operations run by a single LLM agent as an agent trace.

For a detailed example, see the [LLM Monitoring Jupyter notebook][9] which demonstrates how to create and trace an LLM-powered agent that calls tools and makes decisions based on the data.
```

#### Sensitive Data Scanning

This check ensures that sensitive information is handled appropriately and securely, reducing the risk of data breaches or unauthorized access.

{{< img src="llm_observability/evaluations/sensitive_data_scanning.png" alt="A Security and Safety evaluation detected by the Sensitive Data Scanner in LLM Observability" style="width:100%;" >}}
  
| Evaluation Stage | Evaluation Method | Evaluation Definition | 
|---|---|---|
| Evaluated on Input and Output | Sensitive Data Scanner | Powered by the [Sensitive Data Scanner][5], LLM Observability scans, identifies, and redacts sensitive information within every LLM application's prompt-response pairs. This includes personal information, financial data, health records, or any other data that requires protection due to privacy or security concerns. |

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://react-lm.github.io/
[2]: /llm_observability/setup/sdk/?tab=model#tracing-spans
[3]: /llm_observability/setup/auto_instrumentation/
[4]: /llm_observability/setup/?tab=decorators#instrument-your-llm-application
[5]: /sensitive_data_scanner/

> [6]: /llm_observability/submit_evaluations

Author: ```suggestion
[6]: /llm_observability/submit_evaluations
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/llm-observability/blob/main/1-llm-span.ipynb
[8]: https://github.com/DataDog/llm-observability/blob/main/2-workflow-span.ipynb
[9]: https://github.com/DataDog/llm-observability/blob/main/3-agent-span.ipynb
[10]: https://github.com/DataDog/llm-observability/blob/main/4-custom-evaluations.ipynb
```
